One of the projects that we
are working on at UCSD in the context
of healthy aging because of
the changing demographics.
The baby boomers getting old in US and
one of the consents is falls.
CDC estimated that in 2013 the cost
of falls was $34 billion to the system.
And this is expected to go up
to $55 billion by the year 2020.
And in addition to the economic cost,
the impact to the quality
of life is enormous.
Once a person has the first
fall after the age of 65,
they're afraid of falling again.
Their physical activity gets reduced
which becomes a vicious circle and
the other really stark statistic about
falls is one in four people, 25%,
they have mortality within
the first year of falls.
This is in United States,
in developing countries like India,
this number could be much more.
So this is a very serious concern and
we were puzzling with this problem and
then it occurred to us that we could
use the DVS camera to tackle this.
So, I think its cause
stating obvious the Inability
to Maintain Postural Balance directly
increases the risk for falls.
So, if I'm not able to
stand straight like this or
one foot across other,
or balance on one foot.
All of those are telltale signs
of inability to maintain balance,
and as we grow older,
that gets more and more.
So the balance is a very,
very complex motor skill
that we master by the age of
one-and-a-half, two years.
And after that,
we don't even think about it.
This is Beckham in 2014,
the game with Dallas Giants.
He had this one handed catch,
I said jumping backwards.
So we tend to do so
many fantastic things and
maintain balance through
the growing years.
And by the time they hit 65, 70,
if there greater risk for
falls you can mitigate them very,
very easily just by providing
a very simple prosthetic device or
special training programs,
so on and so forth.
So the idea is able to detect how
the risk for falls is increasing.